{"pages":["Centre for Career Development and Counselling Indian Institute of Technology Patna Placement Brochure 2025-26 Centre for Career Development and Counselling Indian Institute of Technology Patna Placement Brochure 2025-26","Indian Institute of Technology Patna is a premier institute of national importance, established by an Act of the Indian Parliament on August 6, 2008. Since its inception, IIT Patna has been dedicated to fostering innovation, academic excellence, and research among its students. The institute is committed to shaping future leaders and researchers who contribute significantly to the nation’s progress across diverse disciplines. IIT Patna provides a dynamic learning environment that encourages creativity, critical thinking, and collaboration. Equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including cutting-edge laboratories, advanced software, and modern machinery, the institute ensures that its students receive comprehensive training to become industry-ready professionals capable of meeting global challenges. ABOUT US 1.","Director's Address IIT Patna is committed to serving the nation by all possible means. In this respect, we aim to provide the industry with a technically skilled employee pool that supports the growth of various reputed organizations and contributes to the nation- building process. IIT Patna strives to improve this goal every year, with the latest developments including the addition of new courses and skill sets designed in line with market demands and the mandate of NEP 2020. What is also encouraging is the active participation of our students in various technological, innovative, and socio-cultural events at national and international levels, recognizing the importance of these experiences in shaping their personalities. Prof. T. N. Singh  Director, IIT Patna DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE IIT Patna invites recruiters to the Campus Recruitment Programme, offering this batch of graduating students an opportunity to prove themselves and add value to the organizations they join. We hope this will be a pleasant experience for recruiters and a step forward in strengthening past relationships while building new ones. I welcome you to become a part of our story and to form a long-lasting association with the institute. 2.","I welcome you to the 2025–26 campus placement season at the Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Our Centre for Career Development (CCDC) is proud to support your recruitment processes in both physical and online modes. Students are the backbone and pride of our institute. This year, we have a pool of over 800 students completing their B.Tech., M.Tech., and M.Sc. programs, all eager to make their mark in the corporate world. Our students actively participate in several national and international technical, cultural, and sports events. Beyond academics, student-run bodies operate about a dozen clubs on campus, each focusing on different skill sets—from public speaking to competitive coding. IIT Patna comprises six engineering departments, three science departments, and a Humanities and Social Sciences department. The institute currently offers 9 B.Tech. programs, 14 M.Tech. programs, and 3 M.Sc. programs. In addition, all departments offer doctoral studies and are engaged in cutting-edge research in their respective specializations. This year, the total student strength on campus has surpassed 4,000. Dr. Rishav Singh Asso. Chairman, CCDC ASSOCIATE CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE CCDC welcomes you to visit our campus—physically or virtually—for full-time employment and internship recruitments. We are committed to supporting you throughout the recruitment process and assisting in the smooth execution of all related activities, including pre-placement talks, screening tests, interviews, and other selection procedures. Our transparent placement policies are aligned with the All IITs Placement Committee (AIPC) to ensure fairness and efficiency for both students and recruiters. We are confident that our students will make valuable contributions to your organization. Please feel free to contact us for any clarifications or support. We look forward to welcoming your recruitment team to our campus. As an institute of higher education, we aim to foster creativity and intellectual growth among our students, while also emphasizing soft skills such as teamwork and communication. Our student clubs and administrative bodies organize various events throughout the year to provide ample opportunities for students to nurture their talents and gain valuable experience. 3.","OUR ALUMNI AVINASH SINGH R&D Engineer - Mercedes Benz RAHUL SINGH Founder - Blue Velocity UTSAV GAUTAM SHASHWAT TIWARI NISHANT MAHAJAN IAS(AIR 33 UPSC CSE 2017) Gujrat Cadre SDE-III - PayPal Senior Software Engineer Bloomberg HARSHVARDHAN SHINDE Founder - Param Webeek OMKAR GAVHANE Senior Software Engineer Samsung Research MAYANK TRIPATHI CEO - Findise KISHAN KUMAR SINGH Member Technical Staff -Oracle DHARMENDRA TIWARI Co-Founder - CodePros ASHUTOSH SINGH Assistant Vice President Morgan Stanley PRIYANKA DAS Co-founder - Robo Bionics 4.","B.TECH & B.S (2026) Total Strength - 565 DEMOGRAPHICS M.Sc (2026) Total Strength - 63 M.Tech (2026) Total Strength - 256 CSE EEE AI MnC CBE ME CEE MME EP CSE 16.8% EEE 16.5% ME 13.5% CBE 11% CEE 11% MnC 9.9% AI 9.7% MME 6.2% EP 5.5% Boys 80.5% Girls 19.5% CSE AI MnC CSEng VLSI Mecha MechD TFE AMT CEE MSE PC StructE GeoE AI 25.4% CSE 10.2% MnC 8.1% CSEng 6.4% CEE 6.4% Mecha 5.9% StructE 5.9% GeoE 5.9% MechD 5.5% AMT 4.7% TFE 4.2% MSE 4.2% PC 3.8% VLSI 3.4% Male 85.9% Female 14.1% Chemistry Physics Mathematics Mathematics 36.5% Chemistry 34.9% Physics 28.6% Male 76.8% Female 23.2% Branch Strength Computer Science and Engineering 95 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science 55 Mathematics and Computing 56 Electrical and Electronics Engineering 93 Mechanical Engineering 76 Civil and Environmental Engineering 62 Chemical and Biochemical Engineering 62 Metallurgical and Material Science Engineering 35 Engineering Physics 31 Branch Strength Computer Science and Engineering 24 Artificial Intelligence 60 Mathematics and Computing 19 Communication Systems Engineering 15 VLSI and Embedded Systems 8 Mechatronics 14 Mechanical Design 13 Thermal and Fluids Engineering 10 Advanced Manufacturing Technology 11 Civil and Environmental Engineering 15 Material Sciences and Engineering 10 Power and Control 9 Structural Engineering 14 Geotechnical Engineering 14 Branch Strength Chemistry 22 Physics 18 Maths 23 5.","DEMOGRAPHICS B.TECH (2027) Total Strength - 609 M.Sc (2027) Total Strength - 69 M.Tech (2027) Total Strength - 256 CSE MnC CBE ME CST EP EEE AI&DS ECE MME CEE CSE 16.2% ME 11.8% CEE 10.3% CBE 10.1% AI&DS 9.3% MnC 9.1% EEE 8.4% ECE 8.4% MME 6.1% CST 5.4% EP 4.9% Male 81% Female 19% CSE AI MnC VLSI PCSE CSPS EnvE GeoE REID SE TE MSE Mech-AMT Mech-MD Mech-TFE Mechatronics AI 26.2% CSE 10.3% Mechatronics 8.4% MnC 7.5% CSPS 7% Mech-MD 6.1% SE 5.6% Mech-TFE 5.1% EnvE 4.2% GeoE 4.2% Mech-AMT 3.7% VLSI 3.3% TE 3.3% MSE 2.3% REID 1.4% Male 85.1% Female 14.9% Chemistry Physics Maths Chemistry 37.7% Physics 31.9% Maths 30.4% Male 85.9% Female 14.1% Branch Strength Computer Science and Engineering 95 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science 55 Mathematics and Computing 54 Electrical and Electronics Engineering 49 Mechanical Engineering 70 Civil and Environmental Engineering 61 Chemical and Biochemical Engineering 60 Metallurgical and Material Science Engineering 36 Engineering Physics 29 Chemical Science and Technology 32 Electronics and Communication Engineering 54 Branch Strength Computer Science and Engineering 22 Artificial Intelligence 56 Mathematics and Computing 16 Communication Systems Engineering 15 VLSI and Embedded Systems 7 Mechatronics 18 Mechanical Design 13 Thermal and Fluids Engineering 11 Advanced Manufacturing Technology 8 Civil and Environmental Engineering 9 Material Sciences and Engineering 5 Power and Control 3 Structural Engineering 12 Geotechnical Engineering 9 Rock Engineering for Infrastructure Development 3 Transportation Engineering 7 Branch Strength Chemistry 26 Physics 22 Maths 21 6.","ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES IIT Patna maintains a high standard of academic integrity as one of the top institutes of India for engineering and research, providing a vast array of educational programs and disciplines to undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctorate students. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES (Course duration: 4 years, full-time) Bachelor of Technology Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Electronics Engineering Engineering Physics Mathematics & Computing Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical & Materials Engineering POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES (Duration: 2 years, full-time / sponsored / part‑time / project staff) Advanced Manufacturing Technology Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Chemical Engineering Communication Systems & Signal Processing Civil Engineering (Structural, Geotechnical, Environmental) Computer Science & Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Mathematics & Computing Mechanical Design Mechanical & Allied Fields (Mechatronics, Thermal, Manufacturing, Materials) Mechatronics Materials Science & Engineering Power & Control Systems Thermal & Fluids Engineering Master of Technology (M.Tech.) / Equivalent in All departments also offer doctoral (Ph.D.) studies and lead advanced research in their domains. 7.","DOCTORATE PROGRAMMES(Ph.D) Master of Science(MSc) Chemistry Mathematics Physics The Ph.D. programs at IIT Patna were initiated in July 2009 across departments of Engineering, Science, and Humanities & Social Sciences. These departments are equipped with state-of-the-art research facilities that foster a high-quality research environment. Enrolled scholars benefit from access to peer-reviewed journals and receive dedicated mentorship from their Ph.D. supervisors to shape their academic and professional careers. IIT Patna typically announces Ph.D. program admissions twice a year, during the months of March–April for the Autumn Semester (July intake) and September–October for the Spring Semester (January intake). Admission is granted based on candidates' performance in interviews and/or written tests, which are usually held in the months of May–July (for the July cycle) and November–December (for the January cycle). The institute actively promotes interdisciplinary research, involving collaboration across two or more departments or centers. Faculty members from various schools, centers, and departments regularly engage in cross- disciplinary research that encourages innovation beyond traditional academic boundaries. ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES 8.","The Research and Development (R&D) unit of IIT Patna, established in 2009, aims to foster productive engagement with sponsoring agencies and facilitate high-impact research. Faculty members and students are encouraged to actively participate in engineering and interdisciplinary research projects that contribute to the generation of external funding, patents, and strong industry collaborations. IIT Patna hosts state-of-the-art research laboratories across Engineering, Natural Sciences, and Humanities disciplines. Faculty members are engaged in numerous sponsored research projects in collaboration with government agencies, R&D organizations, and industry partners, contributing to the institute’s reputation in cutting-edge scientific work. As of now, the institute has undertaken over 460 sponsored projects worth approximately ₹460 crore, and 400+ consultancy projects worth ₹40 crore, along with several patents and collaborative research initiatives. The Incubation Centre (IC) at IIT Patna is a joint initiative with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and the Government of Bihar. It supports innovation and entrepreneurship through modern laboratories and prototyping facilities. The IC focuses on areas such as Electronic System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) and Medical Electronics, and has incubated over 60 startups to date, turning technological ideas into viable commercial ventures. RESEARCH AT IIT PATNA 9.","Twenty-one IIT Patna professors, including the Director, Prof. T. N. Singh were included in the 2025 Stanford-Elsevier list of the world's top 2% scientists. Dr. Sriparna Saha (CSE) was invited to the editorial board of EAAI (Elsevier) and is listed among the world’s top 2% scientists. Dr. Asif Ekbal (CSE) was featured among the top 1,000 computer scientists. Prof. Somanath Tripathy (CSE) was inducted as an expert member of BPR&D’s Standing Committee on Research Methodology. Dr. Pranay Ranjan (Physics, alumnus) joined as Assistant Professor at IIT Jodhpur. Vikas Dubey & Shakkira Erimban (Chemistry Ph.D. scholars) received prestigious Young Scientist Awards. Mr. Piyush Kumar (ME) won the Best Paper Award at MHMT’20. Dr. Snehasis Daschakraborty (Chemistry) received the INSA Young Scientist Award. Dr. R. Behera & team (EE) won the Best Paper Award at CISPSSE‑2020. A research team developed the first exact model for “Negative Absolute Temperature (< 0 K)”. Ankita Swati & Dr. Subrata Hait (CEE) authored a paper in CLEAN – Soil, Air, Water which ranks among the top 10% most downloaded worldwide. Dr. Utpal Roy (Physics) received the “Outstanding Teacher Award in Physics” (STAIR Forum). Srest Somay & Saurabh Kumar Pandey (Physics) received the Best Paper Award at IWPSD 2021 (IIT Delhi). Kshitij Mishra (CSE, Ph.D.) was awarded the Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF). Mr. Dattatreya Tripathy & Dr. Vaibhav Singhal (CEE) won the Outstanding Paper Award at the 14th North American Masonry Conference (USA). Prof. T.N. Singh edited the Elsevier volume Water Scarcity, Contamination, and Management. AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 10.","Competitive Programming & Coding Competitions: 3 students qualified for the ICPC World Finals (2023), with IIT Patna teams consistently reaching Asia West Finals and top 15 ranks in regional contests. Codeforces ratings include 1 Grandmaster, 5 Masters, and 13 Candidate Masters. Two students qualified for the prestigious Crackathon Nationals (Johnson & Johnson). Global & National Rankings: IIT Patna ranked 7th globally among 358 universities in the WorldQuant BRAIN 2024 competition. Inter-IIT Tech Meet achievements include 1 Gold, 2 Silver, and 4 Bronze medals at Tech Meet 11.0 and an 8th rank at Tech Meet 12.0 hosted by IIT Madras. The Asia Pacific Robocon Team secured 4th place nationally (Stage 1). Team of 3 won the OpenAI global competition. Team Kisaan Connect won 2nd Prize in Hackathon App Contest v2.0. Internships & Fellowships: 36 students have been selected for Google Summer of Code over the past years, with 6 selected in the first year alone. Nine students earned competitive Reliance internships. Two students awarded the prestigious IUSSTF-Viterbi Fellowship at USC, USA. Awards & Scholarships: Students have been recipients of Adobe Women-in-Technology and Women Techmakers Scholarships, collectively worth over $10,000. Multiple national finalist positions, including Top 10 out of 24,000+ teams in the Muthoot Finclusion Challenge. STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS 11.","NJACK, the computer science club of IIT Patna, builds a community of tech enthusiasts through sessions and events. It guides students in Competitive Programming, Machine Learning, Cybersecurity, and Development. NJACK TINKERER’S LAB Tinkerer's Lab at IIT Patna is a student-run space that lets you freely build and experiment from scratch. With no deadlines or pressure, it offers complete hands-on learning and creative freedom. TE C H C U LT U R E A T II T PA TN A STC (Student Technical Council) unifies technical clubs, research activities, and projects, fostering collaboration and innovation among students. It provides a platform to transform ideas into reality, develop skills, and stimulate inventions in technology. STUDENT TECHNICAL CLUB Team Phoenix is IIT Patna’s official robotics contingent for ABU Robocon. It offers hands-on learning in robotics through workshops, hackathons, mentorship, and contests like MathWorks Simulation. Robocon 12.","AI-NLP-ML GROUP The AI-NLP-ML Group at IIT Patna, led by Dr. Asif Ekbal and Dr. Sriparna Saha since 2015, explores cutting-edge research in AI, ML, and NLP. It actively collaborates with top companies like IBM, Sony Research India, Flipkart, and Accenture. OTHER TECHNICAL CLUBS TE C H C U LT U R E A T II T PA TN A MoodBoard, the Design Club of IIT Patna, fosters creativity through sessions and workshops in visual, product, and UX design. It offers a supportive space for beginners to learn and innovate. MOODBOARD Sparkonics Sparkonics, the Electrical Engineering Society of IIT Patna, enhances practical skills through projects, workshops, and guest lectures. It empowers students to tackle real-world challenges in electrical and interdisciplinary fields. The Future Leaders Program envisions a \"Do Well, Do Good\" paradigm, blending economic success with societal progress. It nurtures students through impact-driven projects to become professionals who lead with purpose. DWDG-FLP IIT PATNA CHAPTER 13.","TE C H C U LT U R E A T II T PA TN A OTHER TECHNICAL CLUBS The Trading and Investment Cell (TIC) at IIT Patna bridges theoretical finance with real-world market experience. It offers workshops, simulations, expert talks, and events for students passionate about trading and investments. TIC Google Developer Student Clubs (GDSC) IIT Patna is a tech community where students collaborate on real-time projects in Web Dev, ML, Blockchain, and IoT. Open to all skill levels, it fosters learning and innovation through hands-on experience. DSC QUANTUM TECHNOLOGY CLUB (QTC) This club promotes a culture of cutting-edge research in Quantum Technology at IIT Patna. It unites quantum enthusiasts under a common platform for learning and collaboration. The Association of Civil Engineers at IIT Patna fosters student-faculty interaction and skill development. It provides a platform to showcase knowledge and grow through workshops and events. ACE 14.","OTHER TECHNICAL CLUBS Entrepreneurship Cell, IIT Patna fosters entrepreneurial spirit among students through initiatives like E-Week, guest lectures, and seminars. It aims to guide and inspire students to become successful entrepreneurs. E-CELL ChESSx, the Chemical Engineering Society of IIT Patna, nurtures students with scientific and industrial knowledge. It equips them with practical skills to solve real-world challenges effectively. CHESSX TE C H C U LT U R E A T II T PA TN A SCME, the Society of Mechanical Engineers at IIT Patna, promotes activities in the mechanical engineering domain. It organizes events, lectures, and workshops to support student learning and growth. SCME The Finance Club at IIT Patna focuses on consulting, investing, marketing, and product management. It aims to build skills, win competitions, and create a strong financial legacy as a leading student-run club. FINANCE CLUB 15.","TE C H C U LT U R E A T II T PA TN A OTHER TECHNICAL CLUBS The Astronomy and Particle Physics (AP) Club at IIT Patna explores and experiments with topics in astronomy and particle physics. It raises awareness about discoveries from the subatomic world to the vast cosmos. AP CLUB MaTES at IIT Patna fosters curiosity in metallurgy and materials through workshops, events, and guest lectures. It aims to enhance creativity, ethics, and societal awareness in the field. MATES RnA or Rocketry and Aviation Club of IIT Patna is a newly formed club that focuses on drones, MAVs (Micro Air Vehicles), and aviation robotics. Here in the RnA club, we all are family without any partiality. RNA 16.","HoSCA promotes a diverse and engaging campus experience through cultural events that unite people from different backgrounds. The club organizes activities that foster lifelong learning, and community interaction, and showcase the talent of student managers. HoSCA CLUBS UNDER HOSCA Yavanika, the Dramatics Society of IIT Patna, showcases storytelling through theatre and street plays. It helps members hone skills in writing, directing, and performing. YAVANIKA The Students' Gymkhana at IIT Patna is the central student council that nurtures leadership, talent, and co-curricular engagement. With representatives from each hostel, it organizes sports, cultural, and departmental events fostering competition and camaraderie. By blending diverse cultures, the Gymkhana creates a vibrant and inclusive campus experience. C A M PUS LIFE A T IIT PA TN A STUDENTS’ GYMKHANA EXOUSIA Exousia, the dance club of IIT Patna, is a vibrant platform to explore styles from classical to hip-hop and Bollywood. It celebrates creativity, passion, and the joy of movement. 17.","C A M PUS LIFE A T IIT PA TN A CLUBS UNDER HOSCA ARIA Aria, the Music Society of IIT Patna, unites passionate musicians across genres to collaborate, perform, and uphold a legacy of musical excellence. It offers a creative space where music becomes the language of the soul. PIXXEL Pixxel, the photography and videography club of IIT Patna, nurtures creativity in storytelling, cinematography, and editing. It engages members in projects like event coverage, yearbook videos, and short films for Inter IIT competitions. QUIZ CLUB Accio Quiz Wizards is IIT Patna’s hub for trivia, puzzles, and quizzes that sharpen the mind. It blends fun with learning, creating an engaging space for knowledge enthusiasts. HOOT HOOT, the speaking arts society of IIT Patna, hones skills in public speaking, debates, extempore, and storytelling. It nurtures confident speakers who inspire and create impact. 18.","C A M PUS LIFE A T IIT PA TN A CLUBS UNDER HOSCA SYAHI Syahi, the literary society of IIT Patna, celebrates the art of literature and poetry through discussions, recitals, and creative writing. It fosters imagination and a shared love for words. VINCETROKE Vincetroke, the fine arts club of IIT Patna, hosts workshops to help students explore and refine diverse art forms. It showcases their creativity through stunning sketches and paintings. ANIME The Anime Club at IIT Patna celebrates anime culture through discussions, screenings, and cosplay. It offers a vibrant space to explore imaginative worlds and connect with fellow enthusiasts. HEXACHROME Hexachrome, IIT Patna’s Puzzle Club, sharpens critical thinking through diverse puzzles while offering a fun, stress-free space for curiosity and challenges. 19.","SPORTS The Sports Council at IIT Patna is where passion meets athleticism. We provide a platform for students to unleash their sporting prowess, fostering teamwork, discipline, and a healthy competitive spirit. Join us and let the games begin! The Students’ Welfare Board (SWB) at IIT Patna ensures student well-being through counseling, health services, and supportive activities. It also organizes seminars and workshops for holistic development. SWB The Hostel Affairs Council (HAC) at IIT Patna manages hostel and mess facilities with modern infrastructure. Its student representatives work to make campus living smooth and hassle-free. HAC C A M PUS LIFE A T IIT PA TN AOTHER IMPORTANT CLUBS OPTIMAX OptiMatX at IIT Patna blends math with optimization and innovation through research in areas like trading, network theory, and game theory. It makes learning engaging with lectures, papers, coding, and visualization. 20.","SAAR SAAR, the Students' Association for Alumni Relations at IIT Patna, strengthens lifelong bonds between alumni and the institute. It creates a platform to connect former students with their Alma Mater. FORTHRIGHT Forthright, the official student body of IIT Patna, gives students a collective voice to express ideas, concerns, and aspirations. It serves as a platform to inspire, connect, and seek solutions. OWASP OWASP Student Chapter at IIT Patna, led by students and faculty, focuses on web application security. It organizes workshops, CTFs, hackathons, and training sessions on security tools and techniques. OTHER IMPORTANT CLUBS C A M PUS LIFE A T IIT PA TN A PRAYATNA Prayatna, founded in 2018 by IIT Patna students, offers free education up to class X for underprivileged children nearby. Student volunteers teach weekly, nurturing young curious minds. 21.","INFINITO Infinito is the annual sports fest of IIT Patna and witnesses huge participation from across the country. The sports infrastructure serves as a great host for sports enthusiasts. ANWESHA Anwesha is a 3-day cultural and techno-management fest of IIT Patna. Since its inception in 2010, it has grown exponentially to become one of East India’s biggest youth festivals. It puts forth a multitude of events and competitions for students from all over India to participate in. One of the major attractions, the pro-nites share the glamour of rock bands, classical art forms, and comedy shows, with some notable performances by the legendary singer KK, the popular band SANAM and Arman Malik in recent editions. CELESTA Celesta is the techno-management fest of IIT Patna. It is organised every year in the spring and is host to a plethora of technical events, workshops, and exhibits, with active participation from students all over India, especially from the North- East INSTITUTE FESTIVALS 22.","NEBULA Nebula is the first big event for newcomer students to IIT Patna. It is a freshers' party organized by HoSCA for fun and merriment specifically planned by keeping the welfare of the fresher students in mind. APEIREON Apeireon is the annual coding fest of the CSE department of IIT Patna, where a lot of online events are organized and applauded with massive participation from all over the world (2000+). TEDx TEDx IIT Patna is an independently organized TED event at the Institute. It is an attempt to spark deep discussions and connections between the student communities. TEDx IIT Patna allows the students of IIT Patna and nearby colleges to be a part of interesting and enlightening talks by great personalities. REVERBERANCE Diwali is one of those festivals which is most awaited at IIT Patna. To mark and celebrate the festive spirit of Diwali, the House of Socio- Cultural Affairs and House of Literature and Fine Arts present Reverberance, the Inter-Year Cultural Tournament. 23.","Companies are contacted by the Placement office or Placement cell by authorized student representatives and invitations are extended, providing relevant information 01 02 03 05 07 04 06 Companies are given unique IDs for logging into the CCDC website after they submit the filled-in Job Announcement Forms (JAFs) by email or fax. These JAFs are made available online, allowing interested students to register for the company. The Placement Cell and the Company confer and decide upon the date for the pre-placement talks, if necessary. Every registered student submits their resume so that the company can shortlist them accordingly. Representatives from the companies/organizations visit the campus, meet the registered (or shortlisted) students, and conduct the interviews, tests, or group discussion sessions through their recruitment process. A detailed schedule is prepared by the Placement Cell evaluating the job offer, prospects, student intake, and likeliness. The schedule is confirmed with all the companies. The companies are required to prepare and submit in writing, a confirmation letter, with the list of students who are selected after the interview process, on the day of the interview itself. PLACEMENT PROCEDURE The job offer letters reach the Placement Cell. In case a student gets a job offer, they are not entitled to appear further for any tests/interviews by other companies. 24.","A Adani Addverb Adobe Affine Alfa Laval India Pvt Ltd Allen Coaching Amazon C Cloudera CodiMaths Cognam Technologies Cogoport Corrosion Intelligence Private Limited Cubastion Consulting Pvt. Ltd. D DE Shaw Denso Corporation Direct-I Dolat Capital Pvt. Ltd. E Edfora ELDAAS Technologies EMERGY Enviro Pvt. Ltd. ET Medialabs Pvt. Ltd EXL Services H G HDFC Hubble Connected India Private Limited Hubbler Pvt Ltd HUSK POWER SYSTEMS I ICICI Bank IFAS Edutech Pvt. Ltd. IITian's Pace Imanage Increff Indeed InfoObjects Inc Infosys Innoplexus Innover Digital IPETRONIK India Pvt Ltd B Bajaj Auto and Chetak Technology Limited BEL Bangalore BEL Ghaziabad Bennett university Bharat Electronics Ltd. Bloomberg Pune BOSCH Brane Enterprises Brigosha Cadence CDOT CEWIT Chalo Mobility Chqbook Cisco F Flipkart Gameskraft Technologies Gemini Solutions General Electric Goldman Sacs Google PAST RECRUITERS J Jaguar Land Rover Javis Jindal Steel and Power Limited John Deere JSW L K Karza Technologies KEC International KIIT KONGSBERG DIGITAL SOFTWARE AND SERVICE PRIVATE LIMITED KPIT Kreditbee Legato LetsTransport LnT LnT Infotech Logic Fruit Technology Pvt Ltd M Make My Trip Manikaran Power Ltd MAQ Software 25.","Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. Mathswork Mavenir Media.Net Mediatek Medibuddy MeraPashu Mercedes-Benz Research & Development(MBRDI) Merilytics (Meritus Intelytics Private Limited) Microland MPS Limited MyWays P O Paytm Perceptive Analytics Phable PTC Software (India) Pvt. Ltd. Publicis Sapient Q R Quantiphi Quicksell N Narayana Coaching Nation with Namo NAVI Netcracker Technology Solutions Pvt.Ltd Newzera Tech Labs NPCIL NSL Hub NXP One Geo Oracle Oyo Rooms Rakuten Mobile RBL Bank RIL Rippling Rippling S Salesforce Samsung Samsung Bangalore Schrodinger Searce Cosourcing Services (P) Ltd ServiceNow Siksha O Anusandhan Deemed to be University SMS Datatech Snumbers Sprinklr﻿ T TATA Advanced Tata1Mg TCS R & I Tech Mahindra TESCO Texas Instrument Thomson Digital Thoughtspot Titan Truminds Software System TVS Twilio U W Z Wipro Limited Uber ZL Technologies Zomato ZS Associate 26.","INTERNSHIPS 27.","The Aryabhatta Hostel, currently comprising 4 functional blocks, is part of IIT Patna’s ongoing efforts to expand student accommodation, complementing the existing C V Raman, A P J Abdul Kalam, and Asima Hostels. Additionally, a new 732-bed boys’ hostel is under construction and is expected to be completed by mid-2026, further increasing the institute’s residential capacity. The new Central Library has been inaugurated, featuring a modern design and providing ample space and a conducive environment for students. It houses a vast collection of printed books and electronic resources, supported by high-speed WiFi and digital study areas. The Food Court at IIT Patna has been expanded to include additional dining areas and space for new food outlets, enhancing the campus dining experience. A fully equipped Guest House is available on campus to provide comfortable accommodation for official and unofficial visitors. It offers air-conditioned rooms, WiFi connectivity, and dining facilities to ensure a pleasant stay. A new multipurpose hall has been constructed for the Student Affairs Council (SAC) to host cultural and other events. Alongside this, new buildings for faculty and staff have been developed to support the growing academic community. INFRASTRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT 28.","IIT Patna’s campus is situated in Bihta, approximately 35 km from Patna and 20 km from Ara, on a 501-acre (203 ha) site. The nearest railway station is Bihta, about 2 km from the campus. Bihta station lies on the Delhi-Kolkata main line and is well connected to major cities including Patna, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Mughalsarai. The campus has good road connectivity with Patna and Ara. The Government of Bihar operates regular bus services from Gandhi Maidan, Patna, to the IIT Patna campus. Additionally, IIT Patna runs its own bus services for students, staff, and faculty between the campus and Patliputra Colony, Patna. Patna is also connected to Bihta via local trains, with regular services running between Patna Junction and Bihta railway stations. The train journey takes approximately 35–40 minutes. Danapur railway station is the closest major station to Bihta. The nearest airport is Jai Prakash Narayan Domestic Airport in Patna, located about 5 km southwest of the city. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has plans to develop a civil enclave at the Bihta Air Force Station, just 5 km from the IIT Patna campus, to accommodate larger aircraft. CONNECTIVITY Head Ashiana More Rd, Anisabad - Jagdeo Path Rd/Jagdeo Path - Anisabad Rd and Rukunpura - Khagaul Rd to NH 30 in Khagaul, Adampur approx (8.8 km). At the roundabout, take the 2nd exit onto NH 30. Follow Painal - Sadisopur Rd to SH 78 Approx (2.8 km) Drive 10 min (8.0 km) Drive to IITP Main Rd 2 min (550 m) Airport to IIT Patna Bihta Campus Patna Junction to IIT Patna Bihta Campus Head west on SH 78 toward Pedestrian Overpass approx 1.0 km Take a Slight left onto Bihta Road Pass by NIMIT (on the right in 600 m) approx 1.4 km Continue straight onto Bihta Kanpa Rd approx 1.4 km Turn right for IITP Bihta Campus approx 10 m At the roundabout, take the 2nd exit 280 m Slight left 9 m Enter the roundabout Destination will be on the left 70 m IITP Main Road 29.","+91-612-255 2021 nktomar@iitp.ac.in CCDC IIT PATNA OFFICIALS DR. NUTAN KUMAR TOMAR Chairman SATYAM PATEL Head Coordinator +917518215161 NIKHIL SINGH Head Coordinator +918840791221 DR. RISHAV SINGH Associate Chairman +91 6115 233834 rishav.singh@iitp.ac.in HARSH KUMAR Head Coordinator +919354446927 SAKSHAM WANE Head Coordinator +919406859883 RISHABH TOMAR Head Coordinator +918979605951 ANIMESH TRIPATHY Head Coordinator +918637201579 KRIPA SHANKAR SINGH Training and Placement Officer +91 6115 233091/+91 8102 917501 kripa@iitp.ac.in / tpc@iitp.ac.in tpc_com@iitp.ac.in 30. mailto:nktomar@iitp.ac.in mailto:rishav.singh@iitp.ac.in mailto:kripa@iitp.ac.in mailto:rishav.singh@iitp.ac.in mailto:tpc@iitp.ac.in mailto:rishav.singh@iitp.ac.in","CENTRE FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND COUNCELING Indian Institute of Technology Patna Contact Us: 06115-233 091/083, 91-8102917501 ccdc.iitp.ac.in/ tpc_com@iitp.ac.in , pic_tnp@iitp.ac.in linkedin.com/company/tpc-iitpatna/ Address: 307, CCDC Office, Admin Building, 3rd Floor, IIT Patna, Bihta, Patna – 801106 https://ccdc.iitp.ac.in/ mailto:tpc_com@iitp.ac.in mailto:pic_tnp@iitp.ac.in https://www.linkedin.com/company/tpc-iitpatna/"]}